---
layout: post
title: Congratulations and announcements
published: true
---

Just over one week ago, on 15 November 2008, [my best friend Rebecca was
baptized and confirmed][] as a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints. I've mentioned before how impressed and happy I am
with how strong her testimony has grown to be, from when we first met
more than four years ago, when she knew almost nothing about the Church.
I know I've said it a lot already, but I'll never get tired of doing so:
I'm very proud of you, Rebecca. Congratulations. (She's on the right in
the below photo, wearing the baptismal clothing a.k.a. jumpsuit; I'm on
the left. No, I didn't do the baptizing; Brother Wood, the teacher for
her class at the LDS Institute in Tempe, where this was taken and where
the baptism was held, was the one to do it. In the same Flickr set
behind the photo link are photos of Rebecca and Brother Wood, and of
Rebecca, Brother Wood, and Elders Jeffrey and Wood.)

{% flickr 5227110285 %}

<!-- more -->

I also have a couple of announcements to make; one small, one pretty
big. The first is that this blog has relocated again, this time to
a [Linode][] Linux-based VPS---which is also my new recommendation for
VPS services. Complete control, unlimited reimaging, great flexibility
and the ability to combine and work with multiple "linodes," free DNS
services...I can't think of a downside to it besides the fact that their
DNS manager won't let you use a hostname (A/AAAA record) as the target
for a CNAME record.

The blog itself is running the latest beta of [WordPress][] 2.7,
with [IntenseDebate][] as the comment system. All of my blog posts, both
from the previous WordPress installation AND the ones that I never got
to move over from my old Drupal installation, are in place and tagged,
and with some `mod_rewrite` magic any link to any post from either of
the prior two setups will automatically jump to that same post here.
(This should help fix my 80% bounce rate that [Google Analytics][] shows
for my blog, most of which was to pages that would just 404.) There will
probably be a few bugs here or there, so leave me a comment or message
somewhere else if something breaks or just doesn't quite work right.

The second announcement is one that has taken me a very long time to
make. Following the spring 2009 semester at ASU, I will be leaving
school for two years in order to serve a mission for The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. I've begun talking with my Bishop about
receiving the Melchizedek Priesthood and about the process of "applying"
to serve a mission, and intend to submit the paperwork around spring
break next semester to leave next June. The reason for this timing is
partially for family reasons, so that I can go on vacation with them
again one more time before I leave; partially for personal reasons,
since Rebecca and her dad and brother will all be receiving degrees from
from ASU at the end of the spring semester; and partially for academic
reasons, so that I will only miss four semesters and be able to pick up
where I left off (relatively) easily enough when I return.

Like I said, the process of making this decision has been a very lengthy
one for me. There are a few close friends and confidants with whom I
discussed the possibility of me serving a mission, but until now only
one person who is very close and important to me has known that I've
come to a decision. In high school I was planning to not serve a
mission, but over time that changed, and it became clear to me that not
only is serving a mission what the Lord wants me to do, but that it is
what I want to do. I honestly would like to serve in Japan (a childhood
friend of mine served there recently), but I know that I will be sent to
the place where I am needed the most and that I will serve Him to the
fullness of my ability wherever it may be.

Unfortunately, of course, I won't be able to post directly to this blog
from the mission field; I won't have access to a computer or much
technology at all. Rebecca has agreed, though, to post letters that I
send and ask her to post here. I hope to have plenty of interesting and
spiritual stories to share, and am very much looking forward to what, if
everyone whom I have talked with about their missions is right, will be
one of the greatest experiences of my life.

That's still nearly seven months away though. So don't worry, I'm not
going anywhere just yet. Except to bed. (Curse you calculus
tests...hooray for conveniently cancelled Japanese classes.)

[my best friend Rebecca was baptized and confirmed]: http://beccainbloom.blogspot.com/2008/11/november-15.html
[Linode]: http://www.linode.com/
[WordPress]: http://wordpress.org/
[IntenseDebate]: http://intensedebate.com/
[Google Analytics]: http://www.google.com/analytics/
[brother]: http://chris.workmotive.com/
