---
layout: post
title: Returned With Honor
published: true
tags:
- mission
---

Just a little earlier than I had anticipated. tl;dr version: I’m not
dead yet.

I’m not going to go into the full details here; my mom [covered]() that
already on the blog she had set up for me. Suffice it for me to say
that I am not deathly ill, nor am I committed to a mental institution.
Generalized anxiety disorder is a legitimate condition, and can be just
as debilitating to being able to function out in the mission field as a
broken femur. It’s something that takes considerable time, effort, and
self-motivation to fix, and the conclusion that I and the mission
president came to was that it would be impractical for me to try to put
the necessary time and effort into this while staying out in the
mission field. It is an honorable medical release, and I know what it
is that I have to do and do not feel bad about having to come home, or
like I failed in any way. I gave my fullest effort and intent to trying
to stay out as long as I could, and hopefully managed to have a
positive effect on the people I interacted with while I was there.

To answer the next question: no, I do not intend on trying to return to
the mission field once this is resolved. It would take a considerable
amount of time before I would even be to the point where I could go
back out and serve the rest of the full two years; but aside from that,
I feel as though my purpose in serving a mission was fulfilled. I was
with exactly the people who I was supposed to be with---in the MTC with
my companion, district, zone, and teachers, and in Hawai’i with my
companion, district, zone, mission president, investigators, ward
members, et cetera---for me to get the absolute most I could out of the
experience, to grow and learn the most, and to help me stick with it
and go as far as I could. I don’t think there was any other way but by
going out into the field and realizing how inhibiting this can be to my
being able to function that I would have been able to acknowledge it
and start taking the necessary steps to resolve it; it would have
continued to linger and interfere occasionally, and then would have
become a major problem at the worst time possible: when I am raising a
family, and when they are depending on me to provide for and support
them. And if I had stayed out and fought through this without taking
any steps to resolve it, I don’t want to imagine what sort of state I
might have been in after two years.

I am so grateful to my family for how unwaveringly supportive they have
been with me through this, and to my mom for all of the help and advice
that she has given me to help me get started on the path to overcoming
this. I’ll be at home in Tucson for a while---maybe a few weeks, maybe
a few months, I don’t know yet---while I take the immediately necessary
steps to get this sorted out and be able to function entirely
independently, and then I hope to move back up to Tempe to start at ASU
again in the spring. I wholly intend to continue with my [to-do list][]
as soon as possible, but adding to that sharing the experiences I had
on my mission, both with this and in general, with as many people as I
can in the hopes that it’ll be of benefit to at least one person or one
future missionary who might be dealing with the same things I have been
dealing with.

I’m back.

[covered]: http://jesseinhawaii.blogspot.com/2009/10/update.html
[to-do list]: {% post_url 2009-09-12-goals-for-life-as-an-rm %}
