---
layout: post
title: On iPad and workflows
published: true
---

Something I'm kinda surprised I haven't written more about is the
only [new toy][] that I've really at all managed to afford all semester.
I got it to develop for, and am using it for that (hopefully I'll have
the app I'm working on now up by the start of next semester), but what
I'm surprised at is how easily it's integrated itself into my everyday
workflow. I already have my phone, my desktop, and my laptop; but the
iPad fits somewhere between all three.

It's not really quantifiable, but a significant amount of what I do
day-to-day now involves my iPad. It's easier to take into the living
room and use while watching TV than carrying in my whole laptop. I do
most of my scripture reading, both my (almost) daily personal study and
in church, on it, and have all of the study manuals I need and even the
hymnal on it, and I actually do most of my regular reading (at least as
much as I have time for) in iBooks. Typing on it is surprisingly easy,
and it's easier to pull out and send off a quick email than my phone;
I'm even writing this blog post on it in the WordPress app. Web browsing
on it feels very natural with the touch screen, and I use it a lot as an
extra screen in addition to my laptop and desktop while doing web
development.

<!-- more -->

As for what it can't do: I have the Wolfram Alpha app on it, but it's
nowhere near as powerful or versatile as using Mathematica on my
desktop. It simply isn't designed to be used as something on which to do
any actual code writing. Taking handwritten notes in class is much
easier using the digitizer pen for my laptop's resistive touchscreen,
than using my finger or a stylus on the iPad's capacitive touchscreen.
Even though I send and receive all of my SMS messages through my email
using Google Voice, I usually reply to them either on my desktop or my
phone, and to just quickly check my email or calendar I'll more often
pull out my phone than my iPad.

Again, it's hard to quantify the extent to which it's become part of my
everyday workflow. But at the same time, there isn't really any need to
quantify it; all that matters that it's useful in exactly the ways it
was designed to be.

[new toy]: http://www.apple.com/ipad
